hi everyone welcome to the ipfs score
orientations weekly sync for monday the
9th of november 2020. i am a king brain
i will be your host we're going to play
the game of
high priority initiatives other
initiatives parking lot q a
questions it's going gonna be amazing
we're gonna have a lovely time so
let's start with the high priority
initiatives uh the first thing
is upcoming and ship releases hot off
the press i see there's a js
p2p who can yeah
it's just a patch but i wanted to
mention this because
we've said we were going to ship dns at
a resolution and by we i mean i said
that like last year
um and vashko finally shipped it for me
um so
yeah we have dns at a resolution finally
in in js
so yeah that's all that's in there
um there there will also be a go the p2p
release
upcoming that takes into account the
golo p2p core
changes to the stream interface so
for all of you who've been wondering why
go get causes compile errors because
goget just grabs the latest version of
everything with
no carrying at all for versioning uh
that will no longer be a problem
also you'll have better stream closures
amazing uh also shipped um about
20 minutes ago uh js ipfs 52
uh went out the door so that would have
taken the uh p2p dna resolution stuff
with it which is great
so that's in the hands of everyone right
now um the
uh notable things in that is we stripped
out the
like anything that isn't any ipod codex
to on
taxi board doug uh pb or or uh raw
um because they're not very commonly
used so that's things like
uh bitcoin and zed cache and that kind
of thing
we bundled all those with like it was
always
always bundled with the node installed
like it wasn't in the browser bundle
um so it's not like the browser bundles
go any smaller but things like ipvs core
now
are smaller and quicker to install so
you know everyone's ci will thank us
so that's cool also some bug fixes
around a docker container and
a few other bits and bobs um yeah that's
cool
that's the side professor
anything else anything else
what are we tracking for are we tracking
for rc do we think we'll actually
be able to get it out this week uh i
hope so
everything is in its like final stages
of of review i think um the pinning
services stuff is like
basically there i might want to go over
to go over a little bit more may tag
lydle to check a couple things but i
think
we're basically done um last i checked
it was just like adding some tests
uh and andrew's stuff is also good i
think
maybe there's see some ci struggles but
results as far as i can tell
then then yeah then it's just you know
uh
just doing some getting extra set of
eyes to to look at it
but um everything looks looks pretty
good
and pinning will now be an unpinning
will be much much faster
um so so folks with lots of pins will be
very happy about that
sweet there's also um
i don't know if it will be it doesn't
have to hold up the rc
um but for for the release uh
there's a we need an updated version of
web ui
that will utilize the pinning service um
remote api uh if that's ready by the
time we're ready for release we'll
include it if not we'll just make it for
the next rc
but the the final release will be
blocked on that
from ship releases next up is pinning
services
i think we just covered that
uh yeah almost there
migrations are ready to go i just uh
just a final review
and uh should be ready to include that
in the release then
once things are merged shore up the uh
the dependencies
uh make sure everything double check
that but uh we're ready to go
that's for the for the local pinning
being faster yeah that's
that's good right yeah we we also got
like a big
uh pull request with all the pinning
service integration
uh ready uh on the web ui side
uh so we'll coordinate that uh either it
will land in the first rc or the next
one
uh probably in the next one so it will
be easier to test that way
it'll be good either way i'd like for
the uh
to get an rc out sooner so we can get
some of the folks with like a bajillion
pins to
use the new stuff and be like yeah it's
way faster or oh my god you broke
everything please fix
and then we can do that before the
release
[Music]
i think if we can get that on on one of
our gateways
that would be great because we should be
able to see performance differences
right away
uh the gateways don't really help
because the gateways don't pin anything
because oh they are oh they're they're
like garbage collecting everything that
comes in
but but like the folks over at pinata
and stuff will
notice this like immediately okay great
we can
yeah that would that does something to
test this scale would
i think would be a good demonstration
could we run that on our clusters though
we depend on the clusters that's a great
question
um i will ping hector
and infra folks
i mean i'm sure we're pinning stuff
there so but i just don't know if it's
like a big enough issue for anyone to
for it to bother anyone yeah because i
know our like local pin bot
is i believe it's used in the cluster so
cool next up is sec air removal
do we still need to see it because it's
gone
um i think the other thing left is the
status of
our um flashing i don't think we flashed
the
booster no i should do that this week
yeah last week was a little distracting
but yeah
totally reasonable
moving on to js improves capability and
connectivity
yeah so the auto relay example that i
was working on
last week is now ready for the view that
pr also includes the
setup to run tests for node.js examples
it comes with the first test for the
auto relay but the new ones should be
easy to add in the node.js i will
as a follow-up do also the setup for the
browser
with the hour only browser test at the
moment and then we can also easily add
new ones
uh in the custom announce slash sort
addresses front
i just created a new pr for custom
transport filter addresses in web
websockets
this was basically uh because lib2
websockets was allowing
tcp and dns addresses both suite
websockets are websockets secure to be
dialed
this was causing the famous browser ever
attempted to connect to the insecure
websocket endpoint
that people add complaint for a while so
basically we when we are changing the
default to only allow
to dial dns websockets secure addresses
in the browser
and dns websocket secure our simpler
socket in node
but also supporting a custom function to
override this because we need for
example for local testing purposes
or other scenarios that people need
for this week i plan to work on
improving our ability to advertise
ourselves on the network
i've seen with jacob earlier today and i
will work on
the peer routing subsystem basically we
want to
find and connect to the closest peers
that we
know over time in order to exchange our
signed peer records and
make our visibility in the network
better
and with this i will also work on the
production guides
for the relay in the rendezvous as we
want to
have good documentation on how people
should set up their info before
launching this on the next leap to
release
and yeah that's it for this
right it's gonna be nice to not have
people's consoles full of
errors about connecting the website
uh next up is me bi-directional
streaming and streaming errors in the
browser
so um i got like a basic prototype
working
doing ipvs ad with grpc over websockets
and put a demo like an example together
with a test um yeah it's it works
haven't
uh there's a lot of performance tuning
to do and it's only
the only thing to do right now is
bi-directional uh
grpc methods so there's no like unary or
anything like that
um because it's just going to fall back
to the http client for the time being
for
everything that is in the streaming
response um which would be bad
so work is ongoing on that
um i've heard draft pr um has the
implementation in the uh example in it
um uh so
that is that for the end of the high
priority initiatives
that is that for the entertaining
english uh that's the end of the high
priority initiatives
uh moving on to the other initiatives so
improving web ui file
and goes on
um i'm blocked on the review alex if you
can
get the ipi utils packs reviewed at some
point that would be really helpful
once we land then we can do that give us
attribute too um
i think we will need that regardless if
we get the bi-directional streaming
sync that you're working on because uh
not
we won't have it for the go ipfs right
uh the next one is also mine
uh that is uh typescript one
so there's a bunch of new changes in the
pr that is linked in the notes it
removes some of the
type magics that we had in place to try
to work around the
api manager swapping apis
by removing api manager and
adding a bunch of other types i also
kind of spent some time
looking into the issues that turns out
uh
typescript has so it does
omit type parameters in generated
uh types
which is not great because and it turns
them into any
or it would complain when people are
when people have a structure of a
setting set in their projects
because emitted types are not
technically valid typescript
so i don't know a team at microsoft
seems to recognize that it is an issue
but uh it's gonna be a while before it's
fixed and i was trying to see if i can
fix it so we don't have to wait it
too much but it's not non-trivial so
there's another issue that
turns out kind of intertwined with this
so
typescript has a notion of interfaces
and types
and you can import interfaces in
typescript syntax but you can only
import types in jazz doc syntax
but then you can't implement type you
can implement interface anyway
um yeah sorry for bubbling but there's
a bunch of things that still need to be
worked out worked out
i also put another item which was uh
last couple of weeks people had been
expressing interest in shared worker
stuff in within the service worker so
that prompted me to do some work there
i wrote an example uh
that is a pr now to a js ipfs
that tries to exercise all of those
things and show how they
can be wired there are some interesting
findings there two that i hope to
kind of write about and including their
blog posts uh
namely there are a bunch of limitations
with how shared workers work
sorry service workers work and
i think we might have to think more
about how we can
uh work within those limitations rather
than trying to fight them
uh but yeah i think i'll try to capture
it
somewhere else and share
cool yeah i did take a look at that
example it's good but there are some ci
errors
just needs a little bit of time
next up is the badger 2 support
it's locked on the badger people
deciding if there will be a badger 3
or not just skip to v5
e5 is going to be amazing right at this
point
uh yeah we're still waiting for any any
uh word back on that so
just checked this morning i haven't seen
any movement yet
by the way i guess i guess there's a
semi announcement thing
we used to have a uh a frequently
skipped over
uh unix fsd 1.5
other issue here um someone has picked
it up again
and uh so i'll do some some reviews and
and see how that works and if we can uh
can finally push it over the finish line
and go that was picked up as a bounty
right
yes yes i will likely be bothering
some folks who are familiar with this
and are like alex with how it was
implemented in js so that we can
make sure we have interop between the
two um
but yeah
i've been commenting on that thread just
to make sure that the
argument types are the same you know
because we had to it was tedious we had
to change some stuff in js because of
some limitations of browser apis
boring anyway that's cool uh yeah i
stuck a
note into the document so we can get
updates on every week now until it's
done
uh next up is dns adder resolving ngs
which we kind of
talked about a little bit yeah it's
basically done
uh margin released in lipitp
29.3 and also
i also changed the bootstrap browser
addresses of js ipfs to leverage the new
dns others so that info can in the
long term just remove the old ones
yeah that's it
nice uh next up is not traversing
yeah so arsh is back on lippy to p he's
working on not traversal
um linked to the main issue there and
there are a slew of them
in golo p2p um there's a lot of things
that we need to do to
make that work for everything but the
focus
initially right now he's working on
getting metrics to figure out what the
current state of dialability on the
network is
so that we have a baseline and then from
there is going to start on
the quick hole punching story and then
later on we'll look at
like tcp and webrtc improvements to go
down the line but for the shorter term
it will be
quick
um i guess i left some comments on that
doc but it's the plan to be using
uh using relays or not using relays
initially
[Music]
well we have to use relays regardless
but you're talking about like data
exchange relays versus
just yeah versus like our own whatever
thing
yeah i think right now the initial is to
do um
data relays and figure out that but um
we can we can have that conversation
more this week to really really button
that down
yeah so for anybody who's not
clear what that is it's the idea that we
just do hole punching strategy through
relays and if that fails you continue to
just exchange data over the relay
versus having a relay coordinate the
hole punch for
you so that you don't actually run any
data that's not related to the hole
punch
uh this is like a bandwidth saving thing
for the relay and having
hole punching relays versus like data
exchange relays
um was mostly cost effective scenarios
there
pros and cons to both strategies the
dean has mentioned that in the issue
we will try to figure out that
soon which one we want to do um but
yeah if you have opinions scream in my
direction
radical uh yinx 16.5 we talked about
next up is ipfs gc improvements
yes i am currently working on on that i
have a
proposal which i'm just finishing up
today as it covers uh
what we want to do in terms of general
approach and uh some of the algorithms
that i'm going to be uh suggesting that
we we look into employing for this
and what i'm doing right now is trying
to gather some actual statistics
uh so that we can have some real numbers
to look at um
and so we can incorporate that into the
proposal but i can
i'll probably be able to get at least a
quick pass with uh some of you today
but uh i'll be a little bit longer
before i have the other day before i
have
actual numbers but i'd like to release
the proposal
um at some time today i wanted to do
that friday but i wasn't ready yet
so i don't have any anything else other
than that proposal
yet um but there's like i said i will
post that
uh today and today any questions um we
can
we can address it as part of the
proposal
sounds bueno thank you
nice okay that is the end of the other
initiative
moving on to the extremities at the end
so design review proposals
does anybody have anything to propose
design
well i should today um
i don't know if we want to do it should
i um
post a formal proposal uh as part of
a a particular forum or should we just
reach out to individuals and
and uh look for initial design review on
this
so you would create a description thing
that you want reviewed
uh let people put their names down and
then find a time
for it okay
i i would like i don't i'm not sure
if if we're gonna have much if i'm gonna
have much time this week for this but
i'd like to talk
a little bit about um routing hints
uh because it it sort of
keeps coming up and i suspect that
i suspect that this is going to sort of
keep popping up
um routing hints is the idea that if
you build multiple routing systems for
finding content
that it would be nice to have a heads up
as to which system to look for um
it doesn't have to be the only one you
can check all the other ones but it's a
hint as to where it might be so you can
choose to optimize for checking there
first
or checking there later as a fallback
sort of how that works is information
that we sort of know
out of band for some data um
that we might want to have some some way
of of conveying it
um yeah so i i don't think this is gonna
be that would be this week
but perhaps if people are interested in
brainstorming
then we can do some github stuff this
week and
design review next week
yeah just along those lines because i
know like we're in november and
december's around the corner
and one thing i want to be cautious of
is
we have a lot of things in progress
going on in parallel here
um i know we're getting a lot of people
back from file coin efforts and wanting
to ramp up on things
but we should also take the time to
slow things down on some of those let's
ship go ipfs.ed and whatever things that
we have in the pipeline
and then spend a little bit more time um
talking through some of these efforts
and prep for for next year
um so that when we get even more people
back we can have
these smaller concerted efforts to push
that stuff so
i would prefer to favor everyone favor
design discussions
um over trying to push too many things
in parallel
uh adeen uh about the routing kings
uh i think it's also i just want to
point out that uh textile strats did
do something along those lines so it
might be worse also
looking at and talking to them about it
and
there are specific use cases yeah yeah i
remember
the sort of how how threads um
how threads does this this is yeah
that's like sort of one of the options
part of it is like how we how we embed
how we make this accessible to users
right so threads does this by they
introduce like a thread
structure or protocol so we have ipfs
they have slash thread
and that embeds the information inside
of it
maybe that's what we want maybe it's
something else um
and this also probably relates to
stephen's like multi-path
proposal which went up uh a week or so
ago
um there are yeah i think it's i think
it's related to how we interact with
that as well
basically generalizing paths instead of
multi-adders that we can say multi-adder
points at a machine
but a multi-path can point at a system
like friends yeah i just wanted to make
sure that whatever we
end up with we'll enable
we'll actually generalize over what
textile is also doing present
not be able to capture that
cool we are at times if anyone needs to
drop off
drop off otherwise we'll just go through
the final items
so blockers and asks is the next one
anyone blocked
and you've got to ask
anyone got any questions
anything for the parking lot oh no way
no parking or anything
amazing i think we're all done thanks
everyone for coming
uh this has been the update for the 9th
of november 2020.
uh if you could please fill in your
async reviews
that would be amazing thank you so much
see you all
on the internet bye bye